Now, let's look at how we will instill redundancy in server-based services.
For multi availability zone redundancy,
you will need to configure a subnet group.
A subnet group consists of
more than one subnet in which the server is comprised of instances.
A subnet is associated with only one availability zone.
So to create a subnet group to support a multi availability zone configuration,
your subnet group should include subnets from multiple availability zones.
If you run one instance of an application and
the underlying hardware fails or the availability zone fails,
your service will become unavailable until
a new server can be created in a different availability zone.
The time this will take depends on the service and the amount of data that you have.
Also, depending on the service,
you may lose some data.
To reduce downtime to seconds you need to create multiple instances.
This takes different forms in different services.
In ElastiCache, you configure a cluster.
In RDS, you choose a multi-AZ configuration.
The goal in all cases is to create a hot standby that
has a current copy of your data ready to take over at a moment's notice.
Yes, sometimes this is all as simple as a checkbox.
RDS has a create multi-AZ checkbox that will
create a secondary instance for you with no other effort on your part.
Multi-region redundancy for server-based services is not always easy.
Some services such as RDS allow you to create a read replica in another region,
but you'll have to intervene to switch your platform to use it as a primary database.
Other services don't actually have any multi-region support.
Elasticsearch, for example, does not have
provisions for running in a multi-region configuration.
In these cases a common approach is to move backups of the data from
these services into other regions so
that the service could be recovered there if necessary.
Redundancy for these services is not cheap.
To have redundant server,
you basically pay double the cost.
Depending on the service,
you may not even be able to use that secondary instance.
It will just sit there waiting just in case you ever need it.
This may not sound like a great value proposition,
but it is the same situation you'd be in if you're running in a data center.
The only way you have highly available mySQL is if you have two servers.
Often the technologies we run at AWS are dictated by the needs of our applications.
When this is the case,
services like RDS make a lot of sense and still provide substantial value.
Later, we will study other AWS native services that offer
a better pricing model for multi availability zone and multi-region redundancy.